OK, so live. OK. Are we live or are we Memorex? OK, somewhere so in between. OK, so we have some sheets Wait. for uh some Right standard. So. doohickies going to sit there to? Is that alright? Yeah, OK, maybe put this thing here then. OK. OK, so this is February second, eh, two thousand, this is eh meeting number one with Adam and Dan and Morgan, about five uh in the afternoon. A Yeah. range of microphones. this one here? This this one is has a couple of Yeah cheezy, electrettes and the dummy dummy PDA. connected too, or? Yep. Yeah, it is. connected. Yeah, both got two channels to both channels Oh., hang on.. Yeah. Yeah, it OK is at the moment.. Yep. OK. This Although is the gain is pretty low. So for the um read numbers task, Hang I on have, extracted. these OK just just name the microphones. OK. So speaking on the ear mounted uh wired headset thing. OK. Right and now talking on microphone number two, uh, the wireless microphone number two. Yeah. Um, I have no idea which one on. Oh one on one! Oh,. number one. Absolutely OK., which is a a l a lapel, in fact sticking through my lapel Yes.. OK so this is this is the PZM nearest the eh eh the machine room end of the table. Actually Then, i I know, but yeah. number three, it says, but be able to figure it out. This is at the middle of the table This further down the table. And this this one is right at the end of the table, OK? And then got the uh This is the left side of the dummy PDA and this would be the right side. I think listening to this is gonna be like watching home movies. Yes, be pretty horrible. Yeah Very exciting, OK.. So, what I have on these forms here is for the read numbers read digits tasks and extracted directly from Aurora and uh So what I was thinking is we could start just by filling it out and then reading reading the numbers on the form. OK, what do we do with the stuff on top? Fill it out. But I Do we say it after we No. No, Just you don't write it need down to.. What are we why are we writing it down? So that when we transcribe the data we can figure out who said it and their Oh gender. and the date and the time and what mike they were on and all that sort of thing. OK good. So I don't need to fill that out right now. So maybe we should just say it. W OK Why don't. you want to fill it out right now? Just so that So then not spending the time writing it out. So that spending the time talking. Well, how about you give me one of those and we can fill it out and Morgan can read and then we can do it like just that uh concerned. about a bunch of dead time while we all OK sit. here and fill out Yeah the things, yeah., yeah Right.? And so Oh you have. to be sure to pause between each line, since going to be segmenting it and then Right doing. it that way. OK, so this is Morgan. going to read some numbers now. my group. So I definitely wasn't pausing enough between them. This is these are things be we an will issue find. out Yep. Yeah.. I don't know if I said mine was transcript zero, but it was.! Oh, good. OK OK.. a little bit. Can I So have something to write, on the back of? so where Thanks are we in. this? see, so we now we now have a few mikes that work. How long did it take you to set this up? Oh! It didn't doesn't take Well, I mean as you see we haven't really set it up that well, but it doesn't it doesn't take long to set up. I mean, We just came up here one night after recording so it took like twenty minutes something like that. Right I mean and that that included a fair amount of fiddling around Yeah, I mean the equipment since more or less the first time tried to do it. Right. The equip Me and Adam went through it yesterday, just looked at everything. But all kind of here and set up, so just a question of turning it all on. And, um I mean, ev eventually running the program want to like. tape that over and run them up through the center so that wires aren't Right aren't. people aren't tripping over the wires and so on. Are we gonna I mean, is it gonna be over there, or is it gonna be in there? Um, gonna b for reasons because of the microphones runs we want that chunk there. more equipment in there. But the idea is that there are these microphones on the table, there are some cables coming down sort of under a nice mat, and then they a bunch of them get sort of converged with digital there. And the idea is that this gets replaced by a cabinet with doors, so that so that not open to fiddling. So gonna happen. Right. Do we have like a cabinet on order or do we just need to do that? We need to do that. on a list of things to do. I keep on hoping that gonna get done but they don't. Well I, I I can help them get done um one Yeah question! is budget. Do we have any money at all that we can go out and spend on things like cabinets or a hard drive or things like that. Oh I mean, I don't know. Did we s did we spend our the budget already that we had? Yeah. Uh, how much are we talking about here? Um. I don't know. A cabinet is probably going to cost a hundred dollars, two hundred dollars something like that. Yeah I mean, I. mean, you know, we we can spend under a thousand dollars or something without without Yeah worrying. about it. I mean, I think um more worried about things being kept in a funky state long enough that that uh stuff gets broken or or Yeah. you know. Well, I think our intention at this point is when not using it to record a meeting coil them all up and put them under so that people will not be tripping over them and so on. Yeah. So. But, well we should get to a a nice kind of working state of our set up as quickly as possible. Yeah, and also the minor matter, be kind of nice to able to bring people in and say yes, this is where we do", and Right. Not then have be it able to see uh, you Yeah know,. some kind of I mean less important than doing what doing right now but Yeah. So. I mean one big issue with the equipment still, which is um ultimately gonna well the idea is to have any number of these wired headsets, but this amplification problem. I built this thing, very noisy. actually recording going through it at the moment, but so noisy that I am not using for this. designed to be used for the for the desktop meeting as well. But using running that through my uh damp machine as a as an alternative. Well, we should be able to just go buy some preamps, I would think. Yeah. just it eh You see how clumsy this is right? I have to use these batteries to bias them. And only get two channels and a bunch of There are like three connectors in the circuit. The thing is, like, not s not that the thing doesn't exist commercially, but there isn't one unit which does the whole thing in one in one swoop. So it seemed like it was a good idea to make one. um And still not sure. I mean, I think Yeah. I probably know how to fix this. I can probably build it better so it doesn't have such noise, but Well, ultimately kind of a buy gonna. need to build one anyway. Are we? Sure Well, we. Because could just we gonna have to put it in a PDA. Well. Right? If we have microphones in a PDA gonna need bias and a. I guess sort of figured that that Jim would do that at some point.. Right? Yeah. Well n Yeah. Jim is busy at the moment. the problem. I was kind of hoping that Jim was going to build this box. But Yeah um. but he hasn't had time. Well, I think I think he is quite interested in doing it. But. OK. Well If too noisy and if something we can buy, again for, you know, moderate amount of price, even Yeah if it takes. a couple boxes Yeah or something., maybe we should just do it. And then and then later we can uh replace it with Because there may be other considerations that will go into the design. I mean, uh our getting some experience with this may help to determine some of things that are. I don't know might change this design, Right. So. There was uh a statement made uh which I don't think is right, by the way, but there was a statement made at the uh DARPA Communicator meeting I was at recently that um microphone multiple microphones at a distance of less than three feet or something like that were totally useless, completely irrelevant. Oh! Yeah You. you mean for noise cancelling for, or nois? noise cancelling. Um, my counter argument is is an uh uh um, a white rat. uh, which has th two microphones Oh. exceedingly close together and it works pretty well. Um but OK. Yeah. This happened. Do they mean omnidirectional, is that their point? I mean all the noise cancelling mikes, you know, a few m millimeters away from each other pointing in different directions. I think But uh,. I mean, uh my guess is that means just that if if near field, the mathematics of beam beam steering is different. Oh, I see If. the f if the wavefronts are not approximately planar then you can't just do delay and sum and expect it to work Oh, OK., so not talking about how far apart the mikes are, talking about how far they are from the speaker. I guess. Yeah. Right. But I think that if my point is I guess if you if you have a um a uh s a volume in between the two the two uh uh sensors Yeah. and you do something cleverer, there Yeah clearly. are ways Yeah to, get yeah more. out of it. Right, right, right. I mean the Yeah um. The the weird thing is that actually delay in some is not is not the clever thing to do. The the the underwater guys do this stuff which is different. And it actually means that you should get the microphones as close together as possible. Rather than trying to get them far apart so you can get separation, you sort of you want them very close. And And the math is too difficult for me to understand but Yeah. but there. Well, there are various points in meeting where people were making uh uh very strong statements as a matter of fact, like one shouldn't even question it and this was one of them that was kind of funny. Um Yeah. but I I I what I take it to mean is doing doing the dumb thing uh Yeah. with two microphones would be very difficult to get too much out of it but I think it will be interesting to do other things that aren't dumb. So I I still think potentially Hmm. interesting to do that. Although we have to be uh a aware of this if writing proposals about it, wherever, that there may well be reviewers who will say, well everyone knows that you can't get anything out of it if if Yeah close.". Do they believe you can get speaker location out of it? Cuz one way we could sneak it in. Uh, that is an interesting point. Yeah. Yeah Certainly. you can Well we could get some I mean. By the time have have data so we can actually Yeah you know., demonstrate that. Well. Hopefully Oh, you mean. for location? Yeah. OK Well,. Depends getting some on we working on it. getting some right now. Yeah, right. but someone has to write some software to Right. Right. But I Well mean. to actually someone someone do it might. Someone be interested might. in in it. Oh uh I was just thinking one thing we may wanna do is put the fake PDA right in front of someone instead of in the middle of the table like we have it now. Yeah on the. thought that my vision of it is you know each of us will have our little PDA in front of us and so the acoustics uh you might want to try to match the acoustics. Maybe. Yeah But on. the other hand, suppose that uh, the only one uh who is advanced enough in this thinking to actually bring such a PDA to No to a, and meeting I don't need to meet with those and people and. and therefore you bring it in, and you probably want it to be as near to people as possible so you might in fact. shove it to the middle of the table. Well. Yep, yep. For those those we can make several several more of these and then we can have actual recording with you know three. Yeah. Well, I think we should. I mean, I think at least with two. Right?. Right. Because uh one of the th one of the fantasies that was at least fun to talk about was that uh uh OK maybe you th the range of things you can do with multiple microphones is limited if a few inches apart, but what if you have two of these things? Yeah. And you know we have this this idea of the handshake back Yeah and. forth Right and say. here, here"" Right now an, array. right. Yeah. And that that seems very uh easy to believe scenario, I mean, given the number of palm pilots got on the table right now, so. right. Three, right Yeah?. Yeah So I guess this a pretty dense group but it Yeah, but getting a lot higher But. that not, even, you know just not like we We we may be technical, but not particularly PDA people. So just how it Well is, trying. to be. So Well, I. know. Well, true. I mean. Except I s got a PDA way before Well I was doing hand I was doing wearable computers at Boeing, so I guess I sort of count. OK. But. So uh so where are we uh now? I mean so just uh doing this recording so we show we can capable of doing recording Right. uh I guess a little more wiring to do or something to have to have more if we had more people participating. in the meeting wouldn't quite be ready for that. Uh Well. got got Right now we could have two more people on wireless, with a trip. to Audio we could get a third extra person on wireless, and uh right now we could have three more three more people wearing mikes like this, and that would just work. I mean not sure how how good the quality is on this mike but I think going to be OK. So we could actually have eight people with with headset mikes with, I mean, basically Well no. extra effort. Five with wireless. So Yeah we could have. eight. Nine Nine.. Excuse me, nine Yeah.. Five with wireless and four without, Yeah. and four with wired. Um, we don't have headsets though. Yeah. We have the um the ones been using, the ones we got for the PC. Oh, OK so we just have to c wander around and collect them up Yeah., yeah. I think we have three of those.. So, and the Uh h, one in my office. So Right., right. They don't all work, but the nice ones, the um Plan Plantronic ones work. OK. So, just have to see if that works. So a little bit of futzing, the issue about a cabinet, we might want to change some. Yeah So. we can do some more recordings but a little little bit of ramp up on that over the next month Yeah, say yeah.. Right and also I would like to work out some of the software issues a little more completely. So, um, you know, gonna want Yeah to resample. and con Yeah. and bring them over to another machine Yeah. and uh um organize the how gonna store it all. Yeah. Yeah we were talking about that a little bit over coffee today, that that um uh if you downsample it sounded like it came it sounded like it was something like a gig gigabyte an hour if you didn't downsample and once you downsampled then it was something like four hundred megabytes an hour, if you Per used channel all if, you used or all? no, if you used all the channels. Something like that? We figured out that it was It t was more twelve than that gig. twelve gigabytes an hour? For for all the channels? Was that with or without the I thought it was one gigabyte. It couldn't be twelve Cuz no, only. no, I mean only got four gigabytes and that We said, four gigabytes Yeah would give. us twenty minutes before we did anything else Right.. And then we then we And cut then we it cut in half in. half, you by cut it? But By s saving sixteen bits on instead of thirty instead of. OK, so so two gigabytes. And Well then no I mean forty minutes uh four gigabytes for forty minutes. Right So, six. But gigabytes at forty four kilohertz. with sixteen channels kilohertz., yeah. So we can actually triple that. So you can right, so you Yeah can So., hang on so that would OK I came out at the gig an hour, at one point. That one computation I did for sixteen Well I channels think, sixteen bit. I think two gig an hour. Is it two gig an hour? off by an order of magni alright. Order of two Cuz. like, we don't Factor of two. Maybe we don't We don't need to save all channels, right? So, on average. We could we don't we we wouldn't use all the channels, necessarily Oh., do the higher math later, maybe but so so maybe like a gig or two a an hour, um Yeah. but um OK, that is a bit more than I thought. How much here would we have to reformat the drive in there to get some of the more space cuz it I mean a nine gig drive and Yeah. four gig on sc on scratch and about three gig unused, it looked like, on sure the home. directory Yeah.. I just don't know enough about LINUX. How hard is it to repartition? a pain. I mean a pain, you. know, because cuz got data on user", right? And then have to. back it all up and copy it back on again. Yeah so take some thought cuz we have we um If we are in fact gonna have forty or fifty hours at some point and we we wanna ha have part of our work be on feature extraction, it means Yeah that. we need to have waveforms available somehow Hmm.. Right. So already created a U U, doctor speech, data, MR" directory, or had Jane do it and uh um but not a lot of free space around. No. So it it it has currently about four gig on. the drive that I think going to put it on um.. And so we need we definitely need to go buy uh Yeah. you know forty gig fifty gig of drive drive space. We don't need all we don't necessarily need it all. I mean it will be different subsets. So you won't you won't, you know, do all sixteen channels in a single true. I hadn't even thought about that, although be kind of interesting. Yeah. What would you do? You I typically mean train I mean have fi have fifty hours only use one of the PZM channels, something like this, and so that would you wouldn't have to use all sixteen channels at once. But kind of painful for because basically, if we put them on then each CD will have all the channels for one recording, and then when you want to build the, you just want to get one of those files off each of the sessions and Yeah, pretty horrible. So what would we do for training? So if if training distant mi just use one of them? Yeah. Well, maybe OK. two of them, but I mean we wouldn't use only use the distant mikes, right? Yeah so it might be four. Right? But it wouldn't be sixteen. Well, although we wanted to get alignments from the close mike But stuff a separate. training. Right. But you don't want to be constantly take putting that on disk No and wait off. More disk disk is and better. Absolutely on disk.. I mean Yeah. my my preference would be to get get ourselves a hundred gig of disk. The thing Yeah is. And really just not not bother very expensive. right now. So more of an issue of of structuring it with uh the uh Sys Admin folks so we don't panic them and And back up. figuring out where it goes. Well Right, we don't if if it doesn't we need to be backed if we up burn. it all on, then Right, then it doesn't need to be backed up um., in fact, we could you know we could throw away the Broadcast News stuff and put it on there or something like that. Yeah, we were talking about that Yeah. not sure. if still using it. I think Somebody the only used one using it recently it has been. Javier, but at this point I think only been using it for features that he calculated quite a while ago, so Yeah if. nobody else is doing feature send mail calculation to speech local. Pardon? send mail to speech local and see if still using it. How much space is that using up? Do you have any idea? uh twenty, so twelve gigabytes. So that would last us for a while. Yeah, couple hours! Well, anyway for Yeah this. this recording fine cuz only only how many mikes are we recording right Well now?, right now we don't have any choice. It r still records all sixteen channels. just most of them are all zeroes. So OK that. on our list too. Yeah Yeah., well that we can do something about. Yep. mostly a question of user interface. How do we how do we specify which ones are on? Yeah. Yeah, so we don't store any of our audio formats compressed in any way do we? So these large sections when you guys aren't talking Yeah. Probably, we could we could probably just run Shorten on them or something and it will get a big win. I think Run what a good on Shorten those?. Tony uh lossless compression thing. OK. it do? Um, it it does AR modeling and so it looks at a section, it runs an AR model to sort of r w to whiten it and then quantizes the residual with a nice with the three bits it can get away with. Something like that. So I think it On on each block compress you know if load on in any range use ratio bits. I think. it does that. Yeah, so,. Yeah Yeah,. well. Yeah, something that that we definitely need to look at with this. Maybe we subsampled it down to sixteen bits for our first Well try,. OK, only the first try. I what thinking is um obviously we can do the we can we can choose any sixteen bits from the, so we can just have different gain things that we use you know Right per channel.. Yeah, so we might wanna see if maybe the low sixteen bits on the are better than the middle sixteen Yeah. bits. I think probably the bottom four bits are not any good, Regardless, yeah Right.? Although you know it claims they are. But probably the W I was just noticing on the on the a view meter, software view meter and the PZM gain is real low. Yeah So, so. I think initially we should take up more space until analyzed this and get a better sense of it because. uh we Yeah don I. mean not talking about forty or fifty hours at this point talking about a half hour of Yep of speech. and Yeah so. uh we should look at this carefully but Yeah, I was interested when I saw the on Oh there, yeah. Wow!, I mean probably Oh yeah eight bits! of noise. Yeah. So. Yeah, right. got lots of bits of noise. These theories things are pretty amazing. Yeah. And And help help they seem they seem good though they seem to some be sort of oversampling thing I imagine, right? Didn't Oh, God we already knows. get that Yeah?, Cuz yeah you. you can't have uh component tolerances that are Right uh. sixteen million one in sixteen million parts, so. Right Right the. other other thing another issue is just getting a sound card up here. You know, I assumed that we could just put a sound blaster in if we want sound output That. that card that got sound got a sound blaster built into it. Oh, just not working. I just I just disabled it cuz I wanted to find out how well the sound infrastructure would deal with both at once OK. but I think yeah, uh probably it will be fine. Yeah, that s way we don't we no can't, listen to it on this machine. Oh! For a couple of reasons. Well, but the There are two ways we could listen to it. a sound actually sound output built into this thing. Yeah But. the driver I haven't the driver may not support it yet. And then also the sound or the sound card built Hmm in.. But I But we can FTP stuff over, right Right? So. Yeah. And connected looked at it. so we know working. I mean, you can see the little squiggles, and it looks like speech so Yeah. Yeah. You just can't listen. Yeah. OK. Um. One suggestion I have is that um I think this maybe we should just read some more you made more of these, right Right.? I think we should read some more OK. because because this is very f we we need to to work the the the uh the talkers more because not gonna have that many meetings. and this is a pretty tiny amount of data.. So maybe we should do another number Well list right and I I just did ten per page I could easily do twenty per page. just Yeah a question. of uh of how much uh annoyance I wanted to put uh people going to meetings through Well. this is us. have a fair amount of annoyance Yeah.. yeah I think uh. So, can we do we do another set Sure? Are. we are we are we sort of Sure. we talked out about what Well no, OK, the question OK I still have. about what going Right to. do is what is what eh OK, so we can get the equipment set up so that basically in a situation where we can with, you know, ten minutes of preparation, we can bring nine people in here and do a recording. Um. What are wh When are we Are we going to do that? Who are they going to be? What meetings Us are we going to record, to? begin with. So which I which think meetings the intention What meetings. do we have? I mean like us" being the Meeting Recorder people or Well us, I think" being anything that speech I think local, does. um, certainly us, Meeting Recorder. Yeah. Um, us other groups. It just depends on how many meetings having. Um. Jerry also said it would be he would be willing to have his group, some of the AI meetings do it as well. And we And should have uh like we should have Decoder meetings and stuff. Exactly exactly. I think there are enough incidental meetings for us to to do this. And if we can get it set up so it is convenient enough, um Yeah, I mean, the then thing. you OK can just to do g spontaneous meetings as well. Right. Which interested in. I mean, one of the Yeah things., the whole reason I want a PDA as opposed to a wired room Right. is for spontaneous meetings Well., got to make it really really easy to Right start it going. then in that case. Cuz right. that the real goal why. I put ten on here instead of Right thirty. But I mean or forty if or fifty we if we want. group to use it then we probably won't ask them to read any numbers, right? Right Cuz.. Well, I I bet they would be willing to do it the first few times Yeah, just for. the novelty Yeah.. I think they would. And also got at least one woman. Oh great, a good. point I And know!. we have a little problem Boy of, abs I had never no women I hadn't, even thought about that I know., Yeah a, well disaster Oh, when L., man when Liz! uh Shriberg starts coming, then another woman although she alright she doesn't Yeah mind as long as we don't. video her, right Ah?, right. That was it. So. Maybe we should have the reading group here and force Jane to come. Yeah Yeah.. No, well, actually we could have Jane uh interested and curious about this. Yeah stuff. so she could attend one of probably not the decoder meeting but some of the other stuff she would be interested We could enough and we have could her have read the reading group in here Yeah., I Yeah. Yeah mean I mean.. a different style. But I think alright. Yeah, great. Yeah Um., we were joking about having lunch up here but eating with the microphones Um, OK. I had another question briefly about transcription. So are we going get an external service or are we gonna do it? I mean gonna generate Um the transcripts? I think that one of the neat things about having this little pilot thing from today is we should try it a couple different ways,. so we should try to do it internally, maybe ask ask Jane if we could get her to do it or or or have her supervise a linguistics student or somebody. and uh see how long it takes, and you know, multiply out the cost, and then send send the same thing out, or maybe split it in halves or something something. like that to a to an outside service and uh see what that costs and how much hassle that is. Right. And then we can Yeah assess, the the it problem. of course is that you know, in in this meeting three four five six seven eight, nine transcripts, potentially. Well, Except that No you wouldn't. transcribe them all individually, right? You would send I mean, uh a No transcriber is. used I mean, I don't know, assume presumably a transcriber transcribes a single meeting, right? And so they they just have to indicate that the speaker changes. Right. This Right was? this was the point of having near zero skew. Right? So you just pick one, Oh with, right the, yeah best sounding, yeah, yeah one., and give it to somebody and they transcribe it. Yeah. Right. So the only thing have to be careful with is that well So, what so are they they listening to? gonna gonna have to make speaker assignments or something like this going. to have to make speaker assignments, and wh and which recording are they gonna listen to? For one of one of. Or we could mix we could mix the the headset mikes, you know, just to make a single high q high quality Right. and Oh we, that could would do be interesting and we. could do all kinds of weird things like having you know squelch so that you only, you know you only you cut it out when no energy. So you don't noise.. Yeah, you could do fancy things, but it seems like enough. Yeah Yeah.. I OK mean. If we if we do something which is have a little bit of human input to get the words then we can leverage that a lot by some clever cross thing to figure out which channel they really belong to and stuff like this,. probably. Yet. So that I mean, one chunk of work and just segmenting for this is gonna be another chunk of work. Um Yeah.. And Yeah. As much work as you want. Yeah But uh I don't know. This meeting, so, say maybe going to be a half hour or something, and Yeah. and uh heard estimates ranging between ten and twenty times uh real time to do this kind of transcription um. Wow. so you know in in principle then take somebody a day for somebody Yeah. to deal with this. And uh see which one of those seems closest to right and if they. ramped up, if towards the end it was faster you know, get some sort of sense from them uh from whoever does it and um then uh like I say, check it out with an external service and see if faster, cheaper, better Right., worse, whatever. Then go from there.. Yeah, one of the things I was thinking with transcript is that if we take the near field and we do an initial recognition pass, is it easier for a transcriber to correct a transcript, if the Hmm near. field mike does a reasonably good job? I bet it isn't, Yeah. unless really close to right I have. just because such an un The transcribing is sort of something I can imagine doing, Right. whereas having this distraction of having sort of something that looks like it might be right but has got some Some very errors wrong bits, yeah in. is sort of a less less easy thing to do I. don't know. I do I don't know the answer to that sure. the professional transcribers obviously don't have any use for I don't know. Yeah Well, I mean this Cyber Transcriber Yeah service, true, right, true?. And at least supposedly the way they work is by feeding them Yeah, by what fixing is the output up of transcripts the recognizer.. So maybe it depends on what the software tools are like. Yeah If, but you Yeah know, if. they can easily flip through stuff and get to the right thing, or do you point, or I don't know. Yeah. supposed to be some out out shepherders or something in Scotland but Ah, the internet. They should all be in India right now. where the good, but the cheap English speakers are. Yeah. Not Inexpensive in Scotland.. sorry, yeah. Not in Scotland. Well they don't speak such clear They English they sheep they s they they speak cheap English, right? OK so degenerating, right. Are are are we done with Yep uh. MR business Sure, or?. I mean what maybe we should what are our action items? So the continuing process of cleaning up the stuff and making it easier to do that. taking the results of this meeting and putting it in some kind of decent form, probably getting some kind of single channel merged sum. data or something so that you can give a simple sound file of some sort to a transcriber.. to deal with it rather than this massive thing. a little bit of stuff Right to. do. Right? And then do some segmenting and recognition initial recognition would be interesting to do. Yeah, although it it it it may be separating out these numbers from the what I rest mean.. Yeah. And then Yeah just doing a digits on it uh, connected digits. Yeah and uh Right. So, with You wanna this read next? Sure. OK. How many more you got? Oh I on I did ten but I can I have a script to generate them automatically. Well, do some more while we got them here. Wow OK.. What fun it is. Well, you know, not, but interesting that um it m not clear whether better to have them written as as words or or figures. But, of course, to get zero and O distinguished we why, you yep have to do. it. But kind of weird to read. Yeah, just two more. uh Go ahead. OK. So. Thanks. OK, go ahead and read it and then fill it out. OK. OK. OK. say done. OK. Oh, I wonder I wonder if we ran out of disk space yet. So, is it going to disk, or is this And how how much disk do we have?
