Channel Test one.. Hello. Channel Test three... So you think going now, yes? OK, good. Alright Going again Uh So gonna go around as before, and uh do do our digits. Uh. OK, this is Barry Chen and I am reading transcript, you don't actually n need to say the name. probably be bleeped out. OK So.. if these are anonymized, but Oh. OK. Yeah uh I mean not that anything defamatory about uh eight five seven or or anything, but Uh, anyway OK.. Uh so what I have for I I was just jotting down things I think th w that we should do today. Uh This is what I have for an agenda so far Um, We should talk a little bit about the plans for the uh the field trip next week. Uh a number of us are doing a field trip to uh Uh OGI And uh mostly uh First though about the logistics for it. Then maybe later on in the meeting we should talk about what we actually you know, might accomplish. Uh OK. Uh, in and kind of go around see what people have been doing talk about that, a r progress report. Um, Essentially. Um And then uh Another topic I had was that uh uh Uh Dave here had uh said uh Give me something to do. And I I have I have uh failed so far in doing that. And so maybe we can discuss that a little bit. If we find some holes in some things that that someone could use some help with, volunteering to help. got to move a bunch of furniture. OK, always count on a serious comment from that corner. So, um, uh, and uh, then uh, talk a little bit about about disks and resource resource issues that starting to get worked out. And then, anything else anybody has that isn't in that list? Uh I was just wondering, does this mean the dying and I should change it? Uh I think that means the. d do Let me you see. Oh OK, so th Yeah, good. Yeah alright.? Cuz Yeah full.. Yeah Alright.. Yeah. It looks full of electrons. OK. Plenty of electrons left there. OK, so, um, uh. OK, so, uh, I wanted to start this with this mundane thing. Um Uh I I it was it was kind of my bright idea to have us take a plane that leaves at seven twenty in the morning. Um. Oh, yeah, right. Uh this is uh The reason I did it uh was because otherwise for those of us who have to come back the same day it is really not much of a of a visit. Uh So um the issue is how how how would we ever accomplish that? Uh what what what part of town do you live in? Um, I live in, um, the corner of campus. The, OK um., southeast corner. OK, so would it be easier those of you who are not, you know, used to this area, it can be very tricky to get to the airport at at uh, you know, six thirty. Um. So. Would it be easier for you if you came here and I drove you? Yeah? Yeah, perhaps Yeah, yeah yeah., Yeah OK Yeah... Sure. OK, so if if everybody can get here at six. At six. Yeah, afraid we need to do that Six to get there, on time OK. Yeah., so. Oh boy. Anyway, so. Will that be enough time? Yeah. Yeah, so just pull up in front at six and just be out front. And, uh, and yeah, be plenty of time. take it it it won't be bad traffic that time of day and and I guess once uh you get past the bridge that that would Going be the to worst Oakland Yeah.,. Oakland Oakland Yeah.. Bridge Once. you get past the turnoff to the oh, the turnoff Bay Bridge to the bridge. Yeah. Won't even do that. I Yeah mean., just go down Martin Luther King Yeah.. OK. And then. Martin Luther King to to Yeah, and. take us, tops uh thirty minutes Oh, I to get there. So that leaves us fifty minutes before the plane just yeah. So Great, OK so I mean, still not going to be really easy but well Particularly for for uh for Barry and me, not not staying overnight so we don't need to bring anything particularly except for uh a pad of paper and So, and, uh you, two OK have to bring. a little bit but uh you know, don't don't bring a footlocker and be OK So. s W So just staying overnight. I figured you wouldn't need a great big suitcase Oh yeah, yeah.. Yeah. sort of one night. So. Anyway. So OK, s six. AM, in front. Six AM in front. OK. Uh, be here. Uh give you my phone number, If not here for a few m Wake you after up. a few minutes then Nah, be fine. I just, uh it for me it just means getting up a half an hour earlier than I usually do. Not not not a lot, OK. so Wednesday. OK, that was the real real important stuff. Um, I I I figured maybe wait on the potential goals for the meeting uh until we talk about wh been going on. So, uh, been going on? Why don't we start start over here. Um. Well, preparation of the French test data actually. OK. So, it means that um, well, it is, uh, a digit French database of microphone speech, downsampled to eight kilohertz and added noise to one part, with the actually the noises. And, so this is a training part. And then the remaining part, I use for testing and with other kind of noises. So we can So this is almost ready. preparing the the HTK baseline for this task. And, yeah. OK Uh, So the HTK base lines so this is using mel cepstra and so on, or? Yeah. Yeah. OK. And again, I guess the p the plan is, uh, to uh then given this the plan again? The plan with these With So data So? Does i Just remind me of what what you were going to do with the what what what y You just described what been doing. Yeah. So if you could remind me of what going to be doing. Oh, Uh this is yeah, yeah yeah.. Well Tell. him about the cube. The cube? I should tell him about the cube? Yeah. Oh Yeah! Cube.. Yeah. Uh Fill we in actually the cube we. want to, mmm, Uh, uh, analyze three dimensions, the feature dimension, the training data dimension, and the test data dimension. Um. Well, what we want to do is first we have number for each uh task. So we have the um, task, the Italian task, the French task and the Finnish task. Yeah So we? have numbers with uh systems I mean I mean neural networks trained on the task data. And then to have systems with neural networks trained on, uh, data from the same language, if possible, with, well, using a more generic database, which is phonetically phonetically balanced, and. Um. Yeah So so. So. we had talked I guess we had talked at one point about maybe, the language ID corpus? Is that Ye a possibility uh for Yeah that, but?, uh these corpus, w w there is a CallHome and a CallFriend also, The CallFriend is for language ind identification. Well, anyway, these corpus are all telephone speech. So, um. This could be a a problem for Why? Because uh, uh, the the SpeechDat databases are not telephone speech. They are downsampled to eight kilohertz but but they are not uh with Yeah telephone. bandwidth. really funny isn't it? I mean cuz th this whole thing is for Telephone developing. new standards for the telephone. Yeah. Yeah, but the the idea is to compute the feature before the before sending them to the Well, you don't do not send speech, you send features, computed on th. the Yeah, I know, but the reason the device, or Well. Oh I see, so So your point you is that uh the features are computed locally, and so they aren't necessarily Yeah. telephone bandwidth, Yeah uh. or telephone Did you distortions happen to find. out anything about the OGI multilingual database? Yeah Yeah, wh wh what I meant. I said, an OGI language ID, not the not the, uh the CallFriend is Yea a is a, Yeah uh, there, are also LDC w two thing other, right databases?. One they call the database, and another one is a language, something like that. But also telephone speech. Oh, they are? OK. Uh. Well, nnn. But not sure So I mean, e e The bandwidth shouldn't be such an issue right? Because e e this is downsampled and and filtered, right? So just the fact that not telephone. And there are so many other differences between these different databases. I mean some of this recorded in the car, and some of I mean many different acoustic differences Yeah.. So not sure if. I mean, unless going to include a bunch of car recordings in the in the training database, not sure if completely rules it out if our if we if our major goal is to have phonetic context Mmm and you figure. that gonna be a mismatch in acoustic conditions does it make it much worse f to sort of add another mismatch, if you will. Uh, i i I I guess the question is how important is it to for us to get multiple languages uh, in there. Yeah, but. Um. Yeah. Well, actually, for the moment if we w do not want to use these phone databases, we we already have uh English, Spanish and French uh, with. microphone speech. Yeah So.. So Well what thinking. of using is sort of the multi the equivalent Yeah of the multiple, for the multilingual? part we were thinking of using these three databases. And Well for the, this difference in phonetic context that you? Uh, actually, these three databases are um Provide generic that databases. Yeah.. So w f for for uh Italian, which is close to Spanish, French and, i i uh, we have both uh, digits training data and also more general training data. So. Mmm. Well, we also have this Broadcast News that we were talking about taking off the disk, which is is microphone Yeah data. for for English. Yeah, perhaps yeah, there is also TIMIT. We Yeah. Right could. use TIMIT. Yeah, so plenty of stuff around. OK, so anyway, th the basic plan is to, uh, test this cube. Yeah Yes.. To fill in the cube. To fill i fill it in, yeah. OK. Yeah, and perhaps, um We were thinking that perhaps the issue is not, uh, so big of a issue. Well, w w we perhaps we should not focus too much on that stuff. I mean, uh., training training a net on a language and testing a for another language. Mmm. But Perhaps the most important is to have neural networks trained on the target languages. But, uh, with a general database general databases. u So that th Well, the the guy who has to develop an application with one language can use the net trained o on that language, or Uh a generic, depen net, but it not depen it trained depends on a how you mean using the net". So, if talking about for producing these discriminative features Mmm that talking. about you can't do that. Because because the what asking for is is a feature set. Right? And so, uh, the ones who have been weird by by doing this training. Yeah But. if we say, No, you have to have a different feature set for each language, I think this is ver gonna be very bad. Oh. So You Oh think so.. Mmm Oh. yeah. Yeah. I mean, in principle, I mean conceptually Mmm., sort of like they want a re well, they want a replacement for mel cepstra. So, we say OK, this is the year two thousand, got something much better than mel cepstra., you know,. OK? And so we give them these features but these features are supposed to be good for any language. Hmm. Cuz you don't know gonna call, and you know, I mean so, uh, uh how do you know what language it is? Somebody picks up the phone. So thi this is their Well image, I. Someone picks chh up the phone, right? And and he he picks Yeah up, but the ph the the application is there is a target language for the application. So Yeah,. y if y a y Well Well.. But, no but, y you you pick up the phone, Yeah? you talk on the phone, and it sends features out. OK, so the phone doesn't know what Yeah a what, if what Yeah your. language is. If th in the phone, but well, But the image it that that that they could have be. th at the side, and It, could well. be, but the image they have, Mmm right, yeah.? So I mean, one could argue all over the place about how things really will be in ten years. But the particular image that the cellular industry has right now is that distributed speech recognition, where the, uh, uh, probabilistic part, and and s semantics and so forth are all on the servers, and you compute features of the uh, on the phone. So what involved in. We might might or might not agree that the way it will be in ten years, but what asking for. So so I think that th th it is an important issue whether it works. Now, the OGI, uh, perspective right now that probably not the biggest deal. And that the biggest deal is the, um envir mismatch. And they may very well be right, but I I was hoping we could just do a test and determine if that was true. If true, we don't need to worry so much. Maybe maybe we have a couple languages in the training set and that gives us enough breadth uh, uh, that that that the rest doesn't matter. Um, the other thing is, uh, this notion of training to uh which I I guess starting to look at up there, training to something more like articulatory features. Uh, and if you have something just good for distinguishing different articulatory features that should just be good across, you know, a wide range of languages Yeah.. Uh, but Yeah, so I don't th I know unfortunately I don't I see what comi where coming from, I think, but I don't think we can ignore it. So we we really have to do test with a real. I mean, tr for instance training on English and testing on Italian, or Or we can train or else, uh, can we train a net on, uh, a range of languages and Test which on an can unseen include the test. the test the target language, or Yeah, so, um, uh This is complex. So, ultimately, uh, as I was saying, I think it doesn't fit within their image that you switch nets based on language. Yeah. Now, can you include, uh, the the target language? Um, from a standpoint be nice not to because then you can say when because surely someone is going to say at some point, Mmm OK, so you. put in the German and the Finnish. Uh, now, what do you do, uh, when somebody has Portuguese? you know? Um, and Uh, however, you aren't it isn't actually a constraint in this evaluation. So I would say if it looks like a big difference to put it in, then make note of it, and then we probably put in the other, because we have so many other problems in trying to get things to work well here that Mmm that?, you know, not so bad as long as we we note it and say, Look, we did do this". And Uh so, ideally., what wanna do is wanna run it with and without the target language Yeah and the Yeah training., perhaps set for. Yeah. a wide range of languages. Yeah Yeah And. that. way you can say, Well, you know, gonna build it for what we think are the most common ones", but if that somebody uses it with a different language, you know, l likely to happen. Yeah, cuz the truth is is, that not like there are I mean al, although there are thousands of languages, uh, from uh, uh, the point of view of cellular companies, there aren't. Right. you know, fifty or something you, know So?, uh, an and they aren't you know, with the exception of Finnish, which I guess pretty different from most most things. uh, uh most of them are like at least some of the others. And so, our guess that Spanish is like Italian, and and so on. I guess Finnish is a is is a little bit like Hungarian, supposedly, right? Or is I I think don't know anything well, I about kn Finnish oh., well I know that H uh, H I mean, not a linguist, but I guess Hungarian and Finnish and one of the one of the languages from the former Soviet Union are in this sort of same family. But Hmm just. these, you know, uh countries that are pretty far apart from one another, have Hmm. I guess, people rode in on horses and brought their OK. The Yeah Your. turn. Oh, my turn. Oh, OK. Um, see, I I spent the last week, uh, looking over shoulder. And and understanding some of the data. I, um, um, HTK, the free version, so, um, now using three point O, which is the same version that, uh, OGI is using. Oh, good. Yeah. So, without without any licensing big deals, or anything like that. And, um, so been talking about this this, uh, cube thing, and beginning more and more looking like the, uh, the Borge cube thing. really gargantuan. Um, but I So are are you going to be assimilated? Am I Resistance is futile. Exactly. Um, yeah, so I been looking at, uh, uh, TIMIT stuff. Um, the the stuff that been working on with TIMIT, trying to get a, um a labels file so we can, uh, train up a train up a net on TIMIT and test, um, the difference between this net trained on TIMIT and a net trained on digits alone. Um., and seeing if if it hurts or helps. And Anyway again., when y just to clarify, when talking about training up a net, talking about training up a net for a tandem Yeah, yeah. Um approach.? And and. the inputs are PLP and delta and Well that sort, of thing the, or inputs? are one dimension of the cube, which, um, talked about Hmm. it being, uh, PLP, um, J JRASTA, Yeah, but your initial things making one choice there Yeah, right? Which is PLP, right, or. something? Yeah Um., I I haven't I haven't decided on on the initial thing. Probably probably something like PLP. Yeah Yeah.. Hmm. Um, so so you take PLP and you you, uh, do it uh, you you, uh, use HTK with it with the transformed features using a neural net trained. And the training could either be from Digits itself or from TIMIT. And Right the. and, and th and then the testing would be these other things which which which might be foreign language. Right. I Right see.. I I I get in the picture about Yeah the cube.. OK Maybe. OK. OK. Um., I mean, those listening to this will not have a picture either, so, um, I guess not any worse off. But but at some point somebody should just show me the cube. It sounds s I I get I think I get the general idea Yeah of it, yeah,. yeah, b May So, when you said that you were getting the labels for TIMIT,. um, are y what do you mean Oh by, that just? just, uh, transforming them from the, um, the standard TIMIT transcriptions Mmm into. into a nice long huge to Were the do digits training., um, for phones? Um Or, the were they the those digits labels automatically derived? Oh yeah, those were those were automatically derived by by Dan Mmm. using, um, embedded embedded training and alignment. Ah, but which Dan? Uh, Ellis. OK Right.? OK. Yeah. So. I was just wondering because that test. t I I think doing this test because you want to determine whether or not, uh, having s general speech performs as well as having specific speech. right. Well, especially when you go over the different languages again, because the different languages have different words for the. And different digits I was, so yeah, so I was just wondering if the fact that TIMIT using the stuff from TIMIT might be confuse the results that you get. I I think it would, but but on the other hand it might be better. Right, but if better, it may be better because Oh yeah it, but was still. probably use it. Yeah. OK I mean,. you know, I I I guess sounding cavalier, but I mean, I think the point is you have, uh, a bunch of labels and and han hand uh. Uh, I guess, actually, TIMIT was not entirely. It was automatically first, and then hand. But Oh, but OK, um., uh, it it, um, it might be a better source. So, i right. It would be another interesting scientific question to ask, Is it because a broad source or because it was, you know, carefully? uh.. And something you could ask, but given limited time Yeah, I. think the main thing is if a better thing for going across languages on this training tandem system, then Right. probably What about the differences in the phone sets? Uh, between languages? No, between TIMIT and the the digits Oh,. um, right. Well, a mapping from the phonemes in TIMIT to. to, the Oh ICSI, OK. I see.. And then the digits phonemes, um, about twenty or of them? Is that right? Out of Yep that. Out? of that Oh, OK.. Yeah. So, definitely broader, yeah. But, actually, the issue of phoneti phon uh phone phoneme mappings will arise Yeah. when we will do severa use several languages because you Well, some phonemes are not, uh, in every languages, and So we plan to develop a subset of the phonemes, uh, that includes, uh, all the phonemes of our training languages, and.. use a network with kind of one hundred outputs or something like that. You mean a superset, sort of. Uh, yeah, superset Yeah., yeah. Yeah. I th Yeah. I looks the SAMPA SAMPA phone. Yeah. SAMPA phone? For English uh American English, and the the the language who have more phone are the English. Mmm. Of the these language. But n for example, in Spain, the Spanish have several phone that d doesn't appear in the E English and we thought to complete. But for that, it needs we must r h do a lot of work because. we need to generate new tran transcription for the database that we have.. Other than the language, is there a reason not to use the TIMIT phone set? Cuz larger? As opposed to the ICSI phone set? Oh, you mean why map the to the? Yeah. I don't know. I have Um, I forget if that happened starting with you, or was it o or if it was Eric, afterwards who did that. But I think, basically, there were several of the phones that were just hardly ever there. Yeah, and I think some of them, they were making distinctions between silence at the end and silence at the beginning, Oh when. really both silence. I th OK I think it. was things like that that got it mapped down to Yeah, especially. in a system like ours, which is a discriminative system. You know, really asking this net to learn. Yeah. Yeah. kind of hard. not much difference, really. And the ones that are gone, I think are I think there was they also in TIMIT had like a glottal stop, which was. basically a short period of silence, and so Well, we have. that now, too, right? I don't know. Yeah. i So. actually pretty common that a lot of the recognition systems people use have things like like, say, phone symbols, right? Uh, and then they get the variety by by bringing in the context, the phonetic context. Uh. So we actually have an unusually large number in in what we tend to use here. Um. So, a a actually maybe now got me sort of intrigued. What Can you describe what on the cube? Yeah I mean, w I th I think a good idea Yeah, yeah to Yeah.. to talk about the whole cube and maybe we Yeah. could sections in the cube for people Yeah to. work on. Yeah. Um, OK. OK Uh, so even even, do you though the wanna meeting do recorder it? doesn't doesn't, uh and since not running a video camera we won't get this, but if you use a board help us anyway. OK Uh,. point out one of the limitations of this OK medium, but. got the wireless on, right Yeah?, I have Yeah the, so wireless you can walk around.. OK. Can y can you walk around too? No. OK, well Uh, he um can't, actually, but s basically tethered., the the cube will have three dimensions. The first dimension is the the features that going to use. And the second dimension, um, is the training corpus. And the training on the discriminant neural net. Um and the last dimension happens Yeah and to again be Yeah. So the the training for HTK is always always set up for the individual test, right? That some training data and some test data. So different Right than this, right.. This is this is for for ANN only. And, yeah, the training for the HTK models is always, uh fixed, for whatever language testing on. Right. And then, the testing corpus. So, then I think probably instructive to go and and and show you the features that we were talking about. Um, so, see. Help PLP me out with. With what? PLP. PLP? OK. MSG. MSG. Uh, JRASTA. JRASTA. And.. Um,.. So there would be before, um before our network, I mean. Yeah, just the And features, right? Yeah. Yeah. So. Ah, something. Ah. like uh, s TCT within bands and Well. And then after networks. Meaning that we would have, uh, neural networks, uh, discriminant neural networks for each band. Uh, yeah. And using the the outputs of these networks or the linear outputs or something like that. Uh, yeah. What about mel cepstrum? Oh, Or is that um you don't include that because part of the base or something? Well, y you do Yeah have a databases baseline. Yeah. system m mel cepstra, right? So.. But, uh, well, not for the the ANN. I mean OK. So, yeah, we could we could add We could add MFCC Probably also should.. I mean at least Yeah at least conceptually., you know, it doesn't Yeah meant you actually. have to do it, but conceptually it makes sense as a as a base line. be an interesting test just to have just to do MFCC Without with the the neural net Yeah. and everything else the same. Compare that with just M MFCC without the the net. Yeah.. I think I think Dan did some of that. Oh. Um, in his previous Aurora experiments. And with the net wonderful. Without the net just baseline. Um, I think OGI folks have been doing that, too. D Because Yeah I think. that for a bunch of their experiments they used, uh, mel cepstra, Yeah actually.. Um, of course there and this is here and so on. OK? OK. Um, for the training corpus corpus, um, we have, um, the the d digits from the various languages. Um, English Spanish um, French What else do we have? And the Finnish. Finnish. And Italian Where did th. where did that come Uh from, no?, Italian Digits no.? Italian no. Oh. Oh I. Italian yes. Italian Italian?. Italian. Is that Was that distributed with Aurora, or One? L or two The Where newer did that?? one So. English Yeah,. uh, Finnish and Italian are Aurora. And Spanish and French is something that we can use in addition to Aurora. Uh, well. Yeah, so Carmen brought the Spanish, and Stephane brought the French. OK. And, um, oh Is yeah, it and French French or Belgian French? a, uh, French French. French French Like Mexican. Spain and Yeah Spain.. Or Swiss I think that. is more important, Mexican. Spain. Yeah. Because Yeah, probably more so people Yeah. Yeah.. Yeah, Herve always insists that Belgian is i is absolutely pure French, has nothing to do with but he says those those those Parisians talk funny. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They have an accent. Yeah they they do, yeah. Yeah. But then he likes Belgian fries too, so. OK. And then we have, uh, um, broader broader corpus, um, like TIMIT. TIMIT And Spanish so far, right too?. Spanish Oh, Spanish stories? Albayzin is the name What about.? Um, uh all these Aurora f d data p data. is from is derived from Oh. Oh. OK Um., basically, they they corrupted it with, uh, different kinds of noises at different Ah SNR. levels. I see. Yeah. y And I think Stephane was saying some broader s material in the French also Yeah?, we cou we could use Yeah. OK. The French data. Spanish stories? No. No. Sp Not No Spanish. stories? Spanish No. Albayz Spanish something Yeah.. OK. Did the Aurora people actually corrupt it themselves, or just specify the signal and the? They they corrupted it, um OK., themselves, but they also included the the noise files for us, right? Or Yeah. so we can go ahead and corrupt other things. just curious, Carmen I mean, I couldn't tell if you were joking or i Is it is it Mexican Spanish, or No is no it no no Oh, no., no No. no no no. Spanish from Spanish Spain, Spanish from Spain. Yeah, OK.. From Alright Spain.. Spanish from Spain. Yeah, really covered there now. OK. And the French OK from Yeah France, the. No., the French is f yeah, from, uh, Paris, Oh, from Paris, OK. Yeah. And from lots From of TI different places. From i. from Texas. So may maybe From the deep So South. so not really from the US either. Is Yeah that? OK.. Yeah. OK. And, um, with within the training corporas um, uh, thinking about, um, training with noise. So, incorporating the same kinds of noises that, um, Aurora is in incorporating in their, um in their training corpus. Um, I don't think we given the, uh the unseen noise conditions, though, right? I think what they were saying Like was that, um, for this next test gonna be some of the cases where they have the same type of noise as you were given before hand and some cases. where not. OK.. So, presumably, be part of the topic of analysis of the the test results, is how well you do when matching noise and how well you do where not. Right I think. right. So, I guess we can't train on on the the unseen noise conditions. Well, not Right if. not If seen Not if, yeah unseen.. Yeah. OK. I mean, i i i i it does seem to me that a lot of times when you train with something at least a little bit noisy it can it can help you out in other kinds of noise even if not matching just because some more variance that built into things. But, but, uh., uh, exactly how well it will work will depend on how near it is to what you had ahead of time. So.. OK, so your training corpus, and then your testing corpus? Um, the testing corporas are, um, just, um, the same ones as Aurora testing. And, that includes, um, the English Finnish. Spa um, Italian. Finnish. Uh, gonna get German, right? Ge Well, so, yeah, the At final Uh test the, on final a, yeah guess test., is supposed will have to be German German and Danish., right? Right. The s yeah, the Spanish, perhaps, Spanish we will. Oh have yeah., we can Yeah we can. test on s Spanish But the. the Aurora Spanish, I mean. Oh yeah.. Oh, a Spanish testing in the Aurora Uh?, not yet, but, uh, yeah, Yeah, uh preparing, e. pre they are preparing it, and They are, well preparing,. according to Hynek it will be we will have this at the end of November, or Um. OK, so, uh, Yeah something like seven things in each, uh each column. So, uh, three hundred and, uh, different systems that are going to be developed. three of you. Uh, so Yeah. One hundred each hundred, about and. What a hundred what about and fourteen noise conditions each.? What? w Don't we need to put in the column for noise conditions? Are you just trying to be difficult? No, I just don't understand. Well, th uh, when just when kidding I. put these testings on Yeah there., assumi There three three tests. Um, and. And all all gonna be test tested, um, with one training of the HTK system. Um, a script that tests all three different types of noise conditions. is like a matched noise. is a is a slightly mismatched. And is a, um, mismatched channel. And do we do all our training on clean data? Um Also, we no can, No clean no., that. gonna be, um, training on the noise files that we do have. So, um Yeah, so I guess the question is how long does it take to do a a training? I mean, not totally crazy t I mean, these are a lot of these are things and we know we have programs that compute PLP, we have MSG, we have JRA you know, a lot of these things will just kind of happen, won't take uh a huge amount of development, just trying it out. So, we actually can do quite a few experiments. But how. how long does it take, do we think, for one of these trainings? a good question. What about combinations of things? Oh yeah, right. I mean, cuz, so, for instance, I think the major advantage Oh of MSG! Yeah, Och good! point. A major advantage of MSG, I see, th that seen in the past is combined with PLP. Yeah. Um. Now, this is turning into a cube? Or you just add No Well it to, you the just features. Here select. Just. multiple things on the one dimension. Oh, yeah. OK. Yeah, so, I mean, you don't wanna, uh see, seven choose two would be, uh, different combinations. Um. Probably not a complete set of combinations, though, right? What? not a complete set of combinations, though, No right Yeah, I? hope. not. Yeah, That would be Uh, yeah, so PLP and MSG I think we definitely wanna try cuz had a lot of good experience with putting those together.. Um. Yeah. When you do that, increasing the size of the inputs to the net. Do you have to Well, so reduce I mean, so the i it hidden doesn't layer increase, or the something number of trainings?. No, no, just wondering about number of parameters in the net. Do you have to worry about keeping that the same, or? Uh, I don't think so. a computation limit, though, isn't there? Yeah, I mean, just more compu Excuse me? Isn't there like a limit on the computation load, or d latency, or something like that for Aurora task Oh? yeah, we haven't talked about any of that at all, have we? No Yeah., so, not really a limit. What it is is that, uh just penalty, you know? That that if using, uh, a megabyte, then say very nice, but, of course, it will never go on a cheap cell phone. Um OK.. And, u uh, I think the computation isn't so much of a problem. I think more the memory. Uh, and, expensive cell phones, exa expensive, and so forth, are gonna have lots of memory. So just that, uh, these people see the the cheap cell phones as being still the biggest market, so.. Um. But, yeah, I was just realizing that, actually, it doesn't explode out, um not really two to the seventh. But but but i i it doesn't really explode out the number of trainings cuz these were all trained individually. Right? So, uh, if you have all of these nets trained some place, then, uh, you can combine their outputs and do the KL transformation and so forth and and., uh So, what it it blows out is the number of uh testings. And, you know and the number of times you do that last part. But that last part, I think, is so has gotta be pretty quick, so. Uh. Right? I mean, just running the data Oh through. Well, you gotta But wh do the Eight KL y transformation what about a, but net trained on multiple languages, though? Is that just separate nets for each language then combined Necessary, or to is put that actually in. one net trained on? Uh, probably Good question one. net. Well. Uh. One would think one So net., but I don't think tested that. Right? So, in the broader training corpus we can we can use, uh, the three Database, three. or, a combination of of two two languages. In one net. Yeah.. Yeah, so, I guess the first thing is if w if we know how much a how long a a training takes, if we can train up all these these combinations, uh, then we can start working on testing of them individually, and in combination. Right? Because the putting them in combination., I think, is not as much computationally as the r training of the nets in the first place. Right Yeah.? So y you do have to compute the KL transformation. Uh, which is a little bit, but not too much. not too much, no Yeah.. So But Yeah. But there is the testing also, which implies training, uh, the The HTK the models model and, the HTK well, model. Uh, right. Right yeah.. So if you But do have lots of combinations not so long,. It Yeah. How long does it take for an, uh, HTK training? around six hours, I think. It depends For training on and the testing, yeah. More than six More. hours. For the Italian, yes. Maybe one day. One day? For HTK Yeah.? Really? Well. Running on what? Uh, M MFCC. No, sorry, ru running on what machine? Uh, Ravioli. Uh, I don't know what Ravioli is. Is it is it an, or is it a? mmm Um. I don't I don't know know Who. is. that? I I don't don't know know what a Ravioli. is. I don't know. I don't know. We can check really quickly, Yeah I guess., I I think not so long because, well the, test data is about, uh how many hours? Uh, th uh, thirty a few hours hours of. speech, I think, something Hmm Yeah like. that.. And it p Well. Right, so, I mean, clearly, there no six way we hours can even. begin to do an any significant amount here unless we use multiple machines. Right? So so w we I mean plenty of machines here and n often not in in a great great deal of use. So, I mean, I think key that that the that you look at, uh, you know, what machines are fast, what machines are used a lot Uh, are we still using? Is that? Oh, I don't know how w how we would this, though. Um. Well, you have a I mean, once you get the basic thing set up, you Yeah have. just all the uh, a all these combinations, right?. Um. say six hours or eight hours, or something for the training of HTK. How long is it for training of of, uh, the neural net? The neural net? Um. I would say two days. Depends on the corpuses It depends Yeah, right.? It s also. depends on Depends the Yeah net.. How big on the is the corpus net?. For Albayzin I trained on neural network, uh, was, um, one day also. Uh, but on what machine? On Uh a SPERT board.. I I think Y the you did neural a you net did SPERT it on a. SPERT board. OK Yes., again, we do have a bunch of SPERT boards. Yeah. And I think there there I think you folks are probably go the ones using them right now Is. it faster to do it on the SPERT, or? Uh, don't know. Used to be. still a little faster on the Is it? Yeah, yeah. Ad Adam Adam did some testing. Or either Adam or or Dan did some testing and they found that the SPERT still still faster. And. the benefits. is that, you know, you run out of SPERT and then you can do other things on your your computer, and you don't Yeah.. So you could be we have quite a few SPERT boards. You could set up, uh, you know, ten different jobs, or something, to run on SPERT different SPERT boards and and have ten other jobs running on different computers. So, got to take that sort of thing, or or Yeah not going to. get through any significant number of these. So this is Yeah, I mean, I kind of like this because what it No uh, no, what OK I like about. it is we we we do have a problem that we have very limited time. You know, so, with very limited time, we actually have really quite a quite a bit of computational resource available if you, you know, get a look across the institute and how little things are being used. And uh, on the other hand, almost anything that really i you know, is is new, where Yeah saying., Well, look at, like we were talking before about, uh, uh, detection features and all those sort" I think a great thing to go to. But if new, then we have this development and and and learning process t to to go through on top of just the the all the all the work. So, I I I don't see how do it. So what I like about this is you basically have listed all the things that we already know how to do. And Yeah and. all the kinds of data that we, at this point, already have. And, uh, just saying look at the outer product of all of these things and see if we can calculate them. a a Am I am I interpreting this correctly? Is this sort of what what thinking of doing in the short term? Mmm. OK Yeah.. So so then I think just the the missing piece is that you need to, uh, you know you know, talk to talk to, uh, Chuck, talk to, uh, Adam, uh, sort out about, uh, the best way to really, you know, attack this as a as a as a mass problem in terms of using many machines. Uh, and uh, then, you know, set it up in terms of scripts and so forth, and uh, in in kind o some kind of structured way. Uh. Um, and, you know, when we go to, uh, OGI next week, uh, we can then present to them, you know, what it is that doing. And, uh, we can pull things out of this list that we think they are doing Mmm sufficiently., that, you know, not we won't be. contributing that much. Um. And, uh Then, uh, like, there. How big are the nets using? Um, for the for nets trained on digits, um, we have been using, uh, four hundred order hidden units. And, um, for the broader class nets going to increase that because the, um, the digits nets only correspond to about twenty phonemes.. So. Broader class? Um, the broader broader training corpus nets like TIMIT. Um, w Oh, gonna not actually broader class, actually finer class, but you mean Right. y You Right mean. Yeah. more classes More. classes. Right Yeah, right.. More classes Yeah.. what I mean Yeah... And. Yeah. Carmen, did you do you have something else to add? We you haven't talked too much, and D I begin to work with the Italian database to nnn, to with the f and with the HTK program and the. And I trained eh, with the Spanish two neural network with PLP and with LogRASTA PLP. I don't know exactly what is better if if LogRASTA or JRASTA. Well, um, JRASTA has the potential to do better, but it doesn't always. i i JRASTA is more complicated., uh instead of doing RASTA with a log, doing RASTA with a function that varies depending on a J parameter, uh, which is supposed to be sensitive to the amount of noise there is. So, sort of like the right transformation to do the filtering in, is dependent. on how much noise there is. And so in JRASTA you attempt to do that. a little complicated because once you do that, you end up in some funny domain and you end up having to do a transformation afterwards, which requires some tables. And, uh, so. a little messier, uh, more ways that it can go wrong, uh, but if if if careful with it, it can do better. a So bit, do So better.. Um, and I think to to to recognize the Italian digits with the neural netw Spanish neural network, and also to train another neural network with the Spanish digits, the database of Spanish digits. And I working that. Yeah. But prepa to prepare the the database are difficult. Was for me, n it was a difficult work last week with the labels because the the program with the label obtained that I have, the Albayzin, is different w to the label to train the neural network. And that is another work that we must to do, to to change. I I didn't understand. Uh, for example Albayzin database was labeled automatically with HTK. not hand not labels Oh," l by labeled hand.". sorry Labels, I have. a sorry p I had a, problem sorry. The with labels. the pronunciation sorry.. The Yeah, OK labels.. So, OK Oh, so, start also over. So that, TI Yes TIMI., and and saying about the Spanish The? Spanish labels? That was in different format, Oh, I see that the. format for the em the program to train the neural network. I necessary to convert. And someti well So just having a problem Yeah converting. the labels. Yeah, but n yes, because they have one program, Feacalc, but no, l LabeCut, but don't doesn't, eh, include the HTK format to convert.. And Hmm,. I don't know what. I ask e even I ask to Dan Ellis what I can do that, and h they he say me that h he does doesn't any any s any form to to do that. And at the end, I think that with LabeCut I can transfer to ASCII format, and HTK is an ASCII format. And I m do another, uh, one program to put ASCII format of HTK to ase ay ac ASCII format to. Exceed and they used LabCut to to pass. OK, yeah. Actually that So was you complicated, but well, I know how we can did that do that. Sure. So just usual kind of uh sometimes say housekeeping, right? To get these get these things Yeah. sorted out. So it seems like some peculiarities of the, uh of each of these dimensions that are getting sorted out. And then, um, if if you work on getting the, uh, assembly lines together, and then the the pieces sort of get ready to go into the assembly line and gradually can start, you know, start turning the crank, more or less. And, uh, uh, we have a lot more computational capability here than they do at OGI, so I think that i if great about this is it sets it up in a very systematic way, so that, uh, once these all of these, you know, mundane. but real problems get sorted out, we can just start turning the crank and and push all of us through, and then finally figure out best. Yeah. Um, I I was thinking two things. Uh, the first thing was, um we we actually had thought of this as sort of like, um not not in stages, but more along the the time axis. Just kind of like. one stream at a time, check out the results and Oh, yeah, yeah, sure and. go No, just that saying way,. just thinking of it like loops, right? And so., y y y if you had three nested loops, that you have a choice for this, a choice for this, and a choice for that Yeah, right.? And going through them all. That. what I meant. Right, right. And, uh, the thing is that once you get a better handle on how much you can realistically do, uh, um, concurrently on different machines, different SPERTs, and so forth, uh, and you see how long it takes on what machine and so forth, you can stand back from it and say, OK, if we look at all these combinations talking about, and combinations of combinations., and so forth, probably find you can't do it all. OK. OK, so then at that point, uh, we should sort out which ones do we throw away. Which of the combinations. across you know, what are the most likely ones, and And, uh, I still think we could do a lot of them. I mean, it wouldn't surprise me if we could do a hundred of them or something. But, probably when you include all the combinations, actually talking about a thousand of them or something, and probably more than we can do. Uh, but a hundred is a lot. And and, uh, um OK. Yeah. Yeah, and the the second thing was about scratch space. And I think you sent an email about, um, e scratch space for for people to work on. And I know that, uh, working from an NT machine, so his his home His his directory stuff is somewhere exists else somewhere, yeah else.. Yeah, I mean, my point I I want to Yeah, thanks for bring it back to that. My th I want to clarify my point about that that that Chuck repeated in his note. Um. over the next year or two, gonna be upgrading the networks in this place, but right. now still all te pretty much all ten megabit lines. And we have reached the this the machines are getting faster and faster. So, it actually has reached the point where a significant drag on the time for something to move the data from one place to another.. So, you you don't w especially in something with repetitive computation where going over it multiple times, you do don't want to have the the data that working on distant from where being where the being done if you can help it.. Uh. Now, we are getting more disk for the central file server, which, since not a computational server, would seem to be a contradiction to what I just said. But the idea is that, uh, suppose working with, uh, this big bunch of multi multilingual databases. Um, you put them all in the central ser at the cen central file server.. Then, when working with something and accessing it many times, you copy the piece of it that working with over to some place close to where the computation is and then do all the work there. And then that way you you won't have the the network you won't be clogging the network for yourself and others. Mmm. the idea. So, uh, gonna take us It may be too late for this, uh, p precise crunch in now, but, uh, uh gonna take us a couple weeks at least to get the uh, uh, the amount of disk gonna be getting. actually gonna get, uh, I think four more, uh, gigabyte drives and, uh, put them on another another disk rack. We ran out of space on the disk rack that we had, so getting another disk rack and four more drives to share between, uh primarily between this project and the Meetings Meetings Project. Um. But, uh, put another I guess another eighteen gigabytes in there now to help us with the immediate crunch. But, uh, are you saying So I don't know where Stephane, where doing your computations. If i so, on an NT machine, so using some external machine Yeah, it, uh Well, to Nutmeg and Mustard, I think, Do you know I these don't know what yet kind?.. Yeah, OK. Uh, are these are these, uh, computational servers, or something? been kind Yeah of out, of I it think., yeah. I think so. Mmm. Unfortunately, these days my idea of running comput of computa doing computation is running a spread sheet. So. Mmm. Uh, haven't been haven't been doing much computing personally, so. Um. Yeah, so those are computational servers. So I guess the other question is what disk there i space there is there on the computational servers Right.. Yeah, not sure available on is it you said Nutmeg and what was the other one? Mustard. Mustard. OK. Yeah Huh, Well,. the the disk czar now. So Right, right. Well, check on that. Yeah. Yeah, so basically, uh, Chuck will be the one who will be sorting out what disk needs to be where, and so on, and be the one who says, OK, spend the money. So. Which, I mean, n these days, uh, if talking about scratch space, it doesn't increase the, uh, need for backup, and, uh, I think not that big a d and the the disks themselves are not that expensive. Right now What you can do, when on that machine, is, uh, just go to the directory, and do a DF minus K, and tell you Yeah. if space available. Uh, and if there is then, uh But wasn't it, uh I think Dave was saying that he preferred that people didn't put stuff in. more putting in d s XA or XB or Well, right, different? there, um, Right. So the disks, and then. And both of those two kinds are not backed up. And if called", it means probably an internal disk to the machine. Um. And so the kind of thing where, like if um, OK, if you don't have an NT, but you have a a a Unix workstation, and they attach an external disk, be called" uh, if not backed up and be" if it is backed up. And if inside the machine on the desk, called". But the problem is, if you ever get a new machine, they take your machine away. easy to unhook the external disks, put them back on the new machine, but then your is gone. So, you don't wanna put anything in that you wanna keep around for a long period of time. But if a copy of, say, some data on a server, you can put it on because, um, first of all not backed up, and second it doesn't matter if that machine disappears and you get a new machine because you just recopy it to. So tha why I was saying you could check on those on on, um, Mustard and and Nutmeg to see I if see. if space that you could use there. You could also use disks on Mustard and Nutmeg Yeah., yeah. Um. Yeah, and we do have I mean, yeah, so so you yeah, better to have things local if gonna run over them lots of times so you don't Right have to, so go es to the so network especially. if right, if if taking some piece of the training corpus, which usually resides in where Chuck is putting it all on the on the, uh, file server, uh, then, yeah, fine if not backed up because if it g g gets wiped out or something, y I mean it is backed up on the other disk. So, yeah,. OK. Yeah, so, one of the things that I need to started looking at Uh, is this the appropriate time to talk about the disk space stuff Sure?. started looking at, um, disk space. Dan David, um, put a new, um, drive onto Abbott, an X disk, which means not backed up. So, um, been going through and copying data that is, you know, some kind of corpus stuff usually, that that got on a or something, onto that new disk to free up space on other disks. And, um, so far, um, copied a couple of, um, databases over there. We haven't deleted them off of the disk that on right now in Abbott, um, uh, but we I would like to go through sit down with you about some of these other ones and see if we can move them onto, um, this new disk also. Yeah, a lot OK more. space there, and free up more space for doing the experiments and things. So, anything that that you don't need backed up, we can put on this new disk. Um, but if experiments and creating files and things that gonna need, you probably wanna have those on a disk backed up, just in case something goes wrong. So. Um So far copied a couple of things, but I haven't deleted anything off of the old disk to make room yet. Um, and I haven't looked at the any of the Aurora stuff, except for the Spanish. So I I guess need to get together with you and see what data we can move Yeah onto, OK the new. disk. Um, yeah, I I just an another question occurred to me is is what were you folks planning to do about normalization? Um. Well, we were thinking about using this systematically for all the experiments. Um. This being So?, but Uh. So that this could be another dimension, but we think perhaps we can use the the best, uh, um, uh, normalization scheme as OGI is using, so, with parameters that they use there, Yeah, I think a good idea. I mean i i we we seem to have enough dimensions as it is. So Yeah probably, yeah, if we yeah. sort of take their probably the line normalization because then it if we do anything else, gonna end up having to do normalization too, so we may as well just do. normalization. So. Um. So that plausible for the final thing. Good. Um. So, I guess, yeah, th the other topic I maybe already there, or almost there, is goals for the for next meeting. Uh. i i i it seems to me that we wanna do is flush out what you put on the board here. Uh. You know, maybe, have it be somewhat visual, a little OK bit.. Like Uh a s, so w like we can a slide say what? doing, yeah. OK. And, um, also, if you have sorted out, um, this information about how long i roughly how long it takes to do on what and, you know, what we can how many of these trainings, uh, uh, and testings and so forth that we can realistically do, uh, then one of the big goals of going there next week would be to to actually settle on which of them gonna do. And, uh, when we come back we can charge in and do it. Um. Anything else that I a a Actually started out this this field trip started off with with, uh, Stephane talking to Hynek, so you may have you may have had other goals, uh, for going up, and any anything else you can think of would be we should think about accomplishing? I mean, just saying this because maybe things we need to do in preparation. Oh, I think basically, this is this is, uh, yeah. OK. OK. Uh. Alright. And uh and the other the the last topic I had here was, um, uh d fine offer to to, uh, do something on this. I mean doing working on other things, but to to do something on this project. So the question is, Where where could we, uh, uh, most use help? Um, yeah, I was thinking perhaps if, um, additionally to all these experiments, which is not really research, well I mean, uh Yeah,. running programs and, um, trying to have a closer look at the perhaps the, um, speech, uh, noise detection or, uh, detection and Which could be important in i I think that would be for a noise noise I think a big big deal. Because the you know, the thing that Sunil was talking about, uh, with the labels, uh, labeling the database when it got to the noisy stuff? The That that really throws things off. You know, having the noise all of a sudden, your your, um, speech detector, I mean the the, um What was it? What was happening with his thing? He was running through these models very quickly. He was getting lots of, uh, uh insertions, is what it was, in his recognitions. The only problem I mean, maybe the right thing the only problem I have with it is exactly the same reason why you thought be a good thing to do. Um, I I think that fall back to that. But I think the first responsibility is sort of to figure out if something that, uh, an an additional Uh, a good thing you remove the mike. Go ahead, good. Uh, uh. What an additional clever person could help with when really in a crunch for time. Right? Cuz gonna be around for a long time, right? Yeah gonna. be here for years. Yeah And so., um, over years, if if interested in, you know, he could do a lot. But if there if in fact something else that he could be doing, that would help us when sort of uh strapped for time We have we, you know, only, uh, another another month or two to you know, with the holidays in the middle of it, um, to to get a lot done. If we can think of something some piece of this going to be The very fact that it is sort of just work, and i and running programs and so forth, is exactly why possible that it some piece of could be handed to someone to do, because not Uh, yeah, so that the question. And we don't have to solve it right this s second, but if we could think of some some piece well defined, that he could help with, expressing a will willingness to do that. What Uh about training. up a, um, a multilingual net? Yes, Yeah maybe. to, mmm, put together the the label the labels between TIMIT and Spanish or something like that. Yeah, so defining the superset Yes, and., uh, joining the data and Yeah. Mmm. Yeah. Uh. Yeah, something that needs to be done in any event. Yeah. So what we were just saying is that that, um I was arguing for, if possible, coming up with something that that really was development and wasn't research because we we have a time crunch. And so, uh, if something that would would save some time that someone else could do on some other piece, then we should think of that first. See the thing with is I really think that that to do to do a a a a poor job is is pretty quick, uh, or, you know, a job. You can you can you can throw in a couple fea we know what what kinds of features help with it. Hmm You can throw. something in. You can do pretty well. But I remember, in fact, when you were working on that, and you worked on for few months, as I recall, and you got to, say percent, and getting. to really really hard Another year.. Yeah, yeah. So, um And th th the other tricky thing is, since we are, uh, even though not we don't have a strict prohibition on memory size, and and computational complexity, uh, clearly some limitation to it. So if we have to if we say we have to have a pitch detector, say, if we if trying to incorporate pitch information, or at least some kind of harmonic harmonicity, or something, this is another whole thing, take a while to develop. Anyway, a very very interesting topic. I mean, one I think one of the a lot of people would say, and I think Dan would also, uh, that one of the things wrong with current speech recognition is that we we really do throw away all the harmonicity information. Uh, we try to get spectral envelopes. Reason for doing that is that most of the information about the phonetic identity is in the spectral envelopes are not in the harmonic detail. But the harmonic detail does tell you something. Like the fact that there is harmonic detail is is real important. So. Um. So, uh. So I think Yeah. So wh that so the the other suggestion that just came up was, well what about having him work on the, uh, multilingual super f superset kind of thing. Uh, coming up with that and then, you know, training it training a net on that, say, um, from from, uh from TIMIT or something. Is that or uh, for multiple databases. What what would you what would you think it would wh what would this task consist of? Yeah, it would consist in, uh, well, um, creating the the superset, and, uh, modifying the lab labels for matching the superset. Uh. Uh, creating Well a superset, creating from the looking mappings at the multiple, actually languages., and Yeah then. creating i m changing labels on TIMIT? Or on or on multiple No language. Yeah, The yeah multiple language, with the multiple. languages three languages Maybe for?, the other language because TIMIT have more phone. Yeah. Uh So have to create. a mapping from each Yeah. language From each language to. the to superset the superset., yeah Yeah.., um Carmen was talking about this SAMPA thing, and, um, an effort by linguists to come up with, um, a machine readable IPA, um, sort of thing, right? And Yeah., um, they they have a web site that Stephane was showing us that has, um has all the English phonemes and their SAMPA correspondent, um, phoneme, and then, um, they have Spanish, they have German, they have all all sorts of languages, um, mapping mapping to the SAMPA phonemes, which Yeah, the tr the SAMPA transcription?, though, for Albayzin is n What does SAMPA the" mean transcription? are of SAMPA the same, uh, how you say,. symbol Hmm that SAMPA. appear. But I don't know if TIMIT o how is TIMIT. So, I mean What Go sorry ahead.. I was gonna say, does that mean IPA is not really international? No, saying It uses special y diacritics and stuff Yeah, which you. can't can't do print with ASCII on ASCII characters.. Oh So, I the see. just mapping those. Got it. What, uh Has OGI done anything about this issue? Do they have Do they have any kind of superset that they already have? I don't think so. Well, they they going actually the the other way, defining uh, phoneme clusters, apparently. Well. Aha. right. Uh, and an interesting way So they to go just too throw. the speech from all different languages together, then cluster it into sixty or fifty or whatever I clusters think? not done it, uh, doing, uh, multiple language yet, but what they did is to training, uh, English nets with all the phonemes, and then training it in English nets with, uh, kind of seventeen, I think it was seventeen, uh, Automatically broad derived classes.. Yeah. Automatically derived broad classes Yeah, I think, or so?.. Uh, and, yeah. And the result was that apparently, when testing on it was better. I think so. But Hynek didn't add didn't have all the results when he showed me that so, well. But So that does make an interesting question, though. Is some way that we should tie into that with this. Um. Right? I mean, if if in fact that is a better thing to do, should we leverage that, rather than doing, um, our own. Right? So, if i if if they s I mean, we have i we have the the trainings with our own categories. And now saying, Well, how do we handle? And one way is to come up with a superset, but they are als trying coming up with clustered, and do we think something wrong with that? I think that something wrong or OK Well. What, because w Well, for the moment we are testing on digits, and e i perhaps u using broad phoneme classes, OK for um, uh classifying the digits, but as soon as you will have more words, well, words can differ with only a single phoneme, and which could be the same, uh, class. Well I. see. So. Right. Although, you are not So, using this for the using this for the feature generation, though, not the Yeah, but you will ask the net to put one for th Yeah th. the phoneme class and So. Yeah. So saying Well that. there may not be enough information coming out of the net to help Yeah you discriminate, yeah. the words Mmm?. Fact, most confusions are within the phone phone classes, right? I think Yeah, uh, Larry. was saying like obstruents are only confused with other obstruents, et Hmm cetera, et cetera.. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, this is another p yeah, another point. Yeah. So so, maybe we could look at articulatory But type stuff what I thought, right they were gonna? Did they not do that, or? I don't think so. Well, they So were talking about, perhaps, but they d I d talking w about it, but Yeah sort. of a question whether they did because the other route to go. Instead of this., you know Superclass Instead. of the the the the superclass thing, which is to take So suppose y you don't really mark arti To really mark articulatory features, you really wanna look at the acoustics and and see where everything is, and not gonna do that. So, uh, the second class way of doing it is to look at the, uh, phones that are labeled and translate them into acoustic uh, uh articulatory, uh, uh, features. So it won't really be right. You won't really have these overlapping things and so So the forth targets, but of the net are these? Articulatory Articulatory feature features. Right.. But that implies that you can have more than one on at a time? right. Ah. You OK. either do that or you have multiple nets. I see. Um. And, um I don't know if our software this if the qu versions of the Quicknet that using allows for that. Do you know? Allows for Multiple? targets being one? Oh, um, we have gotten soft targets to OK to. So work that. work, yeah. Yeah. OK. So, um, another thing that could be done is Um that we could. we could, uh, just translate instead of translating to a superset, just translate to articulatory features, some set of articulatory features and train with that. Now the fact even though a smaller number, still fine because you have the the, uh, combinations. So, in fact, it has every, you know it had has has every distinction in it that you would have the other Yeah way.. But it should go across languages better. We could do an interesting cheating experiment with that too. We could I don't know, if you had uh the phone labels, you could replace them by their articulatory features and then feed in a vector with those uh, things turned on based on what supposed to be for each phone to see if it if you get a big win. Do you know what saying? No. So, um, I mean, if your net is gonna be outputting, uh, a vector of basically of well, gonna have probabilities, but say that they were ones and zeros, then y and you know for each, um, I don't know if you know this for your testing data, but if you know for your test data, you know, what the string of phones is and and you have them aligned, then you can just instead of going through the net, just create the vector for each phone and feed that in to see if that data helps. Eh, eh, what made me think about this is, I was talking with Hynek and he said that there was a guy at who spent eighteen months working on a single feature. And because they had done some cheating experiments This was the guy that we were just talking a that we saw on campus. So, this was Larry Saul who did this Oh did this, OK.. He used sonorants. Right, OK Was what, he was doing right.. Yeah And they. they had done a cheating experiment or something He, right? and he determined di he that didn't mention that part. But. Well, Hynek said that that, I guess before they had him work on this, they had done some experiment I see where. if they could get that one feature right, it dramatically OK. improved the result. So I was thinking, you know it made me think about this, that if be an interesting experiment just to see, you know, if you did get all of those right. Should be. Because if you get all of them in there, that defines all of the phones. So equivalent to saying Right that. got got all the phones right. So, if that doesn't help, Yeah Although, yeah, it. would be make an interesting cheating experiment because we are using it in this funny way, where Yeah converting. it into features. And then you also don't know what error got on the HTK side. You know? Yeah. It sort of gives you your the best you could hope for, kind of. Mmm. Mmm, I see. The soft training of the nets still requires the vector to sum to one To sum, though, right up to? So one you can't. really feed it, like, two articulatory features that are on at the same time with ones cuz kind of normalize them down to one half or something like that, for instance. But perhaps you have the choice Right of the. final nonl Nonlinearity uh, nonlinearity?, yeah. Um Is it, always sig softmax or? No, actually Yeah. for the So if you choose sigmoid o You OK,? Did um we just run out of disk I think, or? I think apparently Why don't, the you just choose, uh linear? that? Right? Linear outputs? Linear outputs? Isn't that what want? Um. If gonna do a KL Transform on it. Right, right. Right, but during the training, we would train Oh, you on Yeah? and then at the end just chop off the Hmm final nonlinearity.. So, off the air, or? About to be off the air.
